Objective:
------------

This document explains AJAX 

(
	Ref: Head First JAVAScript
	Chapter#12 Dynamic data
) 

Notes:
--------
XML is markup language used to format any kind of data.
It is generally used as standard data exchange format. It is extensible in nature.

XHTML is a version of HTML which adheres to more rigid syntax rules of XML
		XML syntax rules 
			- tags containing content must always appear as matched pairs.
			- tags with no closing tags must be coded with a space and forward slash at the end 	
			- attribute values to be enclosed in quotes
			
AJAX is a programming technique which allows web page to dynamically receive data from web server.
AJAX request can be asynchronous most of the times; 
so it can wait for the request to be processed by a server without freezing a web page.

We can create data-driven applications using AJAX.
It uses either GET or POST http methods to make request.

Communication between client browser and server in context of AJAX involves these steps
	1. The browser sends the request to the server and waits for the response.
	2. The server receives the request and gets to work creating a response.
	3. The server creates the response and sends it.
	4. JavaScript code on client receivers this response and incorporates it into web page.  
	
JavaScript has built-in object XMLHttpRquest which is used to initiate AJAX requests and handle AJAX response. 
It has following methods and properties
	properties:
	 
		readyState -				numeric state of the request. e.g. 4 loaded, 3 receiving 
		status -						HTTP status code of the response 
		onreadystatechange-	a reference to the function that is called when the state of the request changes
		responseText-			the resonse data returned from the server, as a string of plain text
		responseXML-			the response data returned from the server as an object consisting of a tree of XML nodes
		
	methods: 	
	
		open()-						prepares a request by specifying its type and URL	
		send()-						sends the request to the server for processing 
		abort()-						cancel the request
	
For older IE versions, use older ActiveX object instead of XMLHttpRquest
	
	
Referenced in these pages:
---------------------------------

youcube13.html; youcubeadd.html	
	
    