A user story/ scenario will be given to a candidate. 
Consider that you are part of a team who is working on PAIR PROGRAMMING.

Most of the scenarios discussed could be developed as a standalone JAVA application.

For persistence, in memory data structures was sufficient; no db access required.


A candidate has to design HLD (CLASS DIAGRAM)for a given problem statement.
You have to understood and apply Architectural pattern like IoC, MVC.
Also give a thought on 'Separation of concern', 'open close principle'.
You have to provide validation/constraint checks


Write test cases (how to sample data fixture) covering edge/boundry case, sanity check.  


Scenario 1:

	This is related to book library. Provide operations to add/remove/update/delete entities like a member, a book.
	The system should be able to lend a book to registered members. One of the constraint given is a member can atmost 
	be given 6 books only at a time.

Scenario 2:

	Create an application to simulate scenario for a bank. There are 2 type of Account currently. Lets say SAVINGS and CURRENT.
	SAVINGS account can be opened by an individual. CURRENT account can be opened by corporate only.
	The operations that should be provided by system are
		Add/remove/update/delete an account.
		Calculate interest for a given account.
		in future, new type of account like Loan account, recurring account should be added.
		
	
Scenario 3:

	Lets assume that you are working for a shopping application where user is already registered in a system.
	He/She has specified interests during registeration process itself.
	So now when user logs in next time, he/she should be shown products according to interests they had selected earlier.
	Suppose this is a web application and View/Controller are already defined.
	
	You are required to design MODEL for this system,now.

	
	
Topic wise questions:


Exception Handling:

	1> What is difference between Checked and Unchecked exceptions?
	2> Why compiler forces programmer to handle checked exceptions?
	3> Exception handling features added in JDK 7.0.
	
The collection framework:

	1> on what factors, you wiil decide data structure for a given scenario?
	2> What is difference between Comparable and Comparator interface? 	
	3> Hash based data structure and their counterpoarts in Concurrency?
	4> ConcurrentHashmap is defined in which package?
	5> In which version, Concurrency framework was added?
	6> Explain a scenario when we get ConcurrentModificationException?	
	7> Fail fast iterators, how they work?
	8> Fail safe iterators; how to create them?
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
		
		
		
		